I told him yesterday to work, but once
you are engaged, you are still working.
Those who were on Satya
Guna were, in fact, very few.
moved towards Tamo Guna,
because we now have become
developing, so now Rajo qualities
have arrived. When we have
reached Rajo Guna then Houses
have to be built, big palaces have
to be built, factories have to
be opened, a lot of plastic should
be brought into the country, now we
are eating food in plates, then in plastic.
Will eat, later will eat in the paper,
it's our development, that we are doing.
At this time man becomes
extremist. If one starts doing too
much work then the balance within him gets
disturbed., the balance gets disturbed,
it has a strange arrangement
in its Kundalini Yoga. The Swadhishthan Chakra
is intact in Kundalini, which is formed in the
is on the way, the
Chakra of which
Kundalini passes through the
chakra due to which the entire
universe was created. The
chakra due to which all the planets,
spheres and stars of the sky
came into this world, the place of
that chakra is within us, in the stomach. This chakra
emerges from the navel chakra and surrounds it. ,
around it.
It moves in every angle, it
can also move forward and
backward; just like the
stem of a lotus, it is flexible
like that, on top of that, there
is the place of Shri Brahmadev
and his wife or his wife, you
should not say wife because
its saying that she was a virgin; his companion,
that Saraswati ji, or may be called His
power, that is Saraswati
This chakra we can see, in
human being, even from outside.
we cannot see it with bare
but its root form,
its gross form
is what doctors call aotic plexus. This Chakra
also has six petals, similarly the aotic
plexus also has six sub-plexuses.
But doctors will not agree to it.
when I will say that this chakra, the main
function is to convert the fat in the stomach,
the fat that is there,
Means what you call your brain
Or what you call brain, it is said
that it replaces the cells of that brain,
by transforming the fat there
by evolution to enable it to
become one's own brain cell.
When we think too much, we
do planning when we think a lot,
when we use Rajoguna, then this
work happens very fast, hence the
speed increases; all the time people
keep thinking and then we can't stop
thinking all the time. We get entangled
in thoughts, we can not stop our thoughts
even for a minute. We go on loading
thousands of different thoughts, we keep
imposing one on over the other
and plan, these tasks remain endless.
It keeps happening but when its
speed becomes very high, if it increases
excessively, then the other functions
of this cycle which are That we can say
that our liver, our spleen, our pancreas, our
kidney, our heart all these are cared by this Chakra
then this function gets reduced. And
sometimes there are blockades too,
because again gets engaged
in the same work. So the people
who do a lot of brain work, they
are the ones who get diabetes,
They are the ones who get heart attack because
as right side is in much use, the left side
side that is there, tries to balance it ;
When a man works too much, it's surprising
that if you are exerting physically,
if you are doing physical labor
then your heart must not catch because
heart is emotional issue. The heart is an
emotional functionary, but for
balancing the heart occurs. And your body
signals you to look out, son, work
slowly and then lie down on the bed.
It is due to this imbalance that
the signal from the heart is given
and due to this imbalance diabetes occurs because
your Pancreas, that is there, its fuction ceases.
Kidneys stop working The functioning
of the kidneys stops, the utrus
is so much affected that such women
can't bear children, become infertile.
All this happens due to
imbalance and medical science has
nothing to say about this imbalance. We have
cured diabetes thousand times in Sahaj yoga.
Although we will not fix it, The reason is that
you may not collect all the diabetics here.
But those Sahaja Yogis who transcend,
their diabetes gets cured. May take it
like this is a by poduct. Due to
diabetes human eyes go weak, you know!
Sometimes he goes completely
blind, can't even see. Diabetes can
cause many other diseases as from inside the
human goes weak. Urea level in kedney rises
and all the similar
left sided diseases are due to
the excesses of the the right side.
And then thinking also becomes
such that when a person thinks too much
a kind of momentum gets
set in his bain, means he then.
can't stop it and he goes
thinking so wildly continuously.
There are so many people like this in the West.
So where Rajogun has reached to such extremes,
Where the Rajogun has reached its
last extreme, there people have resorted to
drugs; Otherwise also,
Rajoguni drinks alcohol and now
Rajoguni drink alcohol because to them it seems
that this brings some balanced, an escape.
To avoid excessive
brain activity, people drink
alcohol to escape it, but that is not the
cure. Then you come in Tamo Guna and from
this extreme you reach the second
extreme. Then from same extreme you then
go to the other extreme you
keep swinging like a pendulum.
If you take one extreme then you
reach another extreme; So when you
go crazy to do extreme
work. In those countries
where there lot of planning has
been done, where Rajogun has peaked,
now there among young boys,
children under 30 years of age
or people under 35 years
of age, you will find two or
three in a hundred who
have not yet tasted drugs.
Think about it! Imagine how far it has
gone there and at least 30% people, there
start taking drugs regularly. There people
above the age of 13 start taking drugs.
This way escape
Started; it's natural.
Because when you get so upset that
you can't live with your thoughts then
you will run away from yourself somewhere, you
can not see yourself. You can't face youself.
Then more things
get added to this,
After the issues of sex etc. are
also its balance. On any extreme
that you go, its extreme
come alive and it pulls you
so badly that then it goes to the extreme,
then it pulls you to the other side and in this
disarray, in running around the man collapses,
ends up. occurs, man dies and that is why there is
And for this so many suicides are
there and people don't understand
that where so much affluence is there, where so much
power has come, why are people dying? Their childeren
leave their parents at an
early age, old people are lying
in orphanages, small children are
orphans. Each person marrying ten
times. In that too so much distortion. I told
you yesterday how distorted they have become,
i.e. their deformity has occurred to such
an extent. Now we are coming to Rajogun.
Aliright!
But we will have to set norms, therefore,
to lay our norms, Maryada Purushottam
Shri Ram was established
above Rajoguna
that you will have to follow your rules. Whole
of our lives are bound to the norms, but when
when Rajogun becomes stronger,
then the norms get violated, breaks badly.
now that you are developing countries, then,
when you started developing out of proportion
So you said sir we are eradicating
poverty, that we are developing. But if
you give even one rupee more to your
servant, and if he starts smoking and
drinking alcohol, then he is not poor; It's
over, it's over, his poverty ends there.
when a person gets into any addiction,
then it must be taken that
now he is no more poorer.
he will become adicted only
when he has some extra money.
it does not mean that if someone
I am not saying it should be kept anywhere.
This means that unless
in the human being
any such event doesn't occurs
due to which whatever material development
is there, or root development,
that should impact his humanity.
Means that if the person is
wealthy, becomes vey rich,
it is not necessary that
he is a very respectable one; may be
there is none other more wicked then him.
If there is a great learned and scholar,
it is not necessary that such person
becomes a very religious person,
of course it is not necessary,
there will be none uglier than him.
We hear that those mafia people,
their sons have done MA from Oxford
University, Cambridge University and
John Hopkins universities everywhere.
And what kind of business
do they do these days?
Sons of Mafia leader
are doing muder killings.
So we must follow that path which connects
man with the centre point of humanity, the
soul.
If he is not connected to that center,
whatever
his development you may do is immaterial.
we will tell you with an example;
Here in our Shipping Corporation,
the salaries of all the
drivers were increased,
each one of them started getting
salary of thousand rupees. After few days
all their wives came and asked,
Mother, why did Sir increase everyone's
salary. I said why? They said earlier
we used to earn four hundred rupees and
were happy, now everyone is drinking
alcohol. These people have kept women, and
now live in 'Gutte', They don't come home
at all, everyone just (unintelligible).
Earlier they were better, they
were able to balance till four hunded,
and after that a little more money
became available, started drinking alcohol.
This does not mean at all that They should
be given only four hundred rupees only,
and they should be given balance, by which
he can care Lakshmi, else richer
will become demons,
and not be 'Lakshmi Pati'.
Its connection must be established with the
soul within us which flourishes humanity.
Until this connection is there your
entire education is completely useless.
That is why Surdas ji also said, Nandlal,
remove all the ignoance of Surdas.
Even after completing all the education,
until you have gained the light of your
soul, then your education also becomes
useless. It doesn't seem to make any sense.
therefore it is extremely necessary
that you reach to your self element.
Then you will understand the meaning of all
things that these seven chakras,
inside you, are the many parts of humanity,
which are when integerated get fulfilled by
the Kundalini from within, that is why
they Makes everyone whole, integrates.
by Kundalini, passes through all
this, moving on all these elements, it
reaches through your soul elements,
and then the light of the soul that passes
through these chakras and man understands,
which thing is right and which is wrong.
Because if you want to do something wrong,
that you cannot do, difficulty may arise.
The reason for it is that a new
consciousness comes inside you that is
called vibratory awareness. Which is called
consciousness (vague), may call awaeness.
now we can say that which you
call it enlightened consciousness,
in the light of that consciousness you can
understand wheather it is good or bad. If
you did something bad, your vibrations will
stop immediately, if you ask the vibrations
whether so and so man is a gentleman
or a scoundrel, if your vibrations stop,
understand that he is a very evil man.
Because of these vibrations you will be
able to understand if God exists or not.
And for your basic questions, your absolute
queries, you will get the answer to them
from these waves of consciousness. It is
found whether something is true or false,
It is very difficult to know this in
this 'Kalyug'. The reason is that
because of this confusion,
for these disturbances we have
become
absolutely ignorant of any sensitivity.
And if at this moment this sesitivity,
thats subtle, and is super subtle
sensitivity when gets developed inside
us, then you must test it. If somebody
wishes that Mata ji," Why it doesn't
happen with in us by just little effort."
So, to say, yes! we do
will connect you, but your
connection is loose there, set it up
properly, we will put it subtlety. If you
have respect for yourself, if
you take this as a special thing,
then you must try, if you are
not aware of self, and you do not
understand any meaning of your life,
and you have wasted your life till now and
you want to waste it in future too, then
Sahaja Yoga is absolutely useless for you.
You will come here and will tanscend
but you can not reach its depth,
you need to sit in its meetings.
If you intend to see the real meaning
of your life in it, then you should
hold on all your 'Sutras'
properly, individually,
and in that it should be selfless,
else your coming and going is a waste.
As if someone held a sitar
in his hand and If you strum it,
then isn't it the sitar
becomes selfless? (indistinct)?
But man is not conscious about his life
in Kaliyuga. he has no respect for himself,
he has no self respect.
He can't do it, he has no love for himself
He doesn't have self-respect,
that's why he is going on
wasting every moment of his life.
If he becomes aware within himself
and thinks where am I wasting my life,
where am I spoiling my
life, then he will understand
that this moment has also been wasted,
that too. That moment too got wasted,
may there be a moment where
there is a display of some living power,
or the power that is alive
is revealed from within us,
Its to find the meaning of the self,
that's selfishness, everything else is a
play of Maya. Man thinks that there will be
selfishness in it, there is selfishness
in this, there is selfishness in that, but
if he had got it, it would have stuck
somewhere. Selfishness cannot be found
anywhere, selfishness can be achieved only
by understanding the meaning of 'self'.
And so, its not only the meaning of
'self', unity in it need happen; This only
in medical terminology, we would call
control on parasympathetic nervous system.
Now the Doctors will say,
how can this be possible?
Yes, It can't be done by
these people, by doctorin.
Can't be done by any scholar It can't
be done by any reading or writing;
neither by yoga, nor by Sankhya, nor
by anything, it can't be done, it can't.
Its already said, since how many
years its said, thousands of years before
it was said that it can't be done by any
one. It needs blessings of Mother. Alright!
All of you who come
here, people will get it.
But I would say that everyone
will not get it; A sir came yesterday,
He did not get it, he was much furious on
me. They went outside and created a scene,
started shouting that all this a
false propaganda is going on
and it is like this and like
that. He created a geat havock.
He created a great havock.
When he came, I called him to me first.
I said son! you come here. One thing
is that he has some dirty disease inside,
and there was also possession of
ghost inside him,
So, first I called him and asked,"
you should sit cool, else
you will get
troubled.
But he got distracted, and he started
shouting and screaming a lot. Kundilini
many people say that When she becomes
awakened, then jumping and dancing happens.
and
so-and-so, and so-and-so happens.
The things that you can do, it
cannot be Kundilini, it is straight to say.
You can dance, if you wish to
there is a man,
he is dancing, take it;
that he is dancing on his
own, for whatever reason may be dancing!
then how will
you know that this is Kundilini?
Because any man can
dance; its simple calculation.
Some man is shouting, any man,
another man may also shout, wheather
his Kundalini is
awakened or not;
All this even you can do .
You cannot show the
vibration of Kundilini. You will
see with your own eyes that Kundilini,
she will pulsate in the triangular bone or
elsewhere on the side.
You can see with your
eyes, you cannot do that
the pulsation sets in some portion
only 'dhud dhud dhud dhud dhud dhud.'
you can't do this, let
anyone do it and show it;
Anyone may dance,
anyone may jump, scream
then you will say that what if
suddenly someone starts screaming
and shouting and starts
jumping, then what will happen.
Then its simply means that
they are possessed by ghost.
If ever someone gets possessed by a ghost,
he behaves this way someone else comes
But for his coming he starts
shouting, screaming, does anything.
Yesterday a gentleman came to us, I told
you that he was doing the entire Hatha Yoga
exercise in front of me; so much so that I
had to stop him from coming here. As I felt
that his intestines may not completely
come out, he may not spare them even and
and he used to do it continuously without
any effort. He never learned Hatha Yoga.
Some corrupt fanatic entered into Him.
He used to show all kinds of postures in
front of me. There are people even with
such ghostly possessions that they,
You will be astonished,
compose many poems on me.
In the begining when Sahaja Yoga started,
in Bombay, there was a maid who used
to wash utensils, the one who is
called Ghatin, no sooner she came, started
singing the verses loudly and sang fifteen
verses of 'Devi Mahatmya' in front of me.
And standing exactly like a man, recited in
Sanskrit in such a way that people were
stunned. How come she became so
knowledgeable in Sanskrit
How come she is reciting such long
verses of Goddess. It was very surprising.
Reason for this was that
inside him a Pandit had come
and she was reciting shlokas. I told that
Pandit Sahib, after taking the 'bandhan',
you go away from here,
why are you using this lady
and toubling me. He said Mother when will
I come, when will I be born again, then I
when will I sing your praises; that's why
I came here." And there were many our
Sahaj Yogi's who
said this. Starting from
Markande and beyond
that, from time immemorial,
people have said that ghosts, vampires,
etc. stuck,
whatever mental diseases
are there; there is ESP
News of someone in advance. There
is a lot about evil spirits, vampires, etc.
written in our scriptures
But we don't even read Hindi,
this Sanskrit is very far away.That
is the language of English people
now; we study english. We have
everything written in our scriptures
that such things happen,
and for that man gets sad.
There are some people who shackle
themselves
and show hanging on trees.
Especially among the tribals,
many such practices are prevalent;
Strange, strange things; walking in burning
fire. Ghost knowledge of many types is
in Africa too. In every country strange
strange types of ghost knowledge exist;
Then man will think that there was
something special in this. They too walked
into the fire. Thus many kinds of things
have been happening in this country earlier
and now these are taking place in countries
where Rajogun is reaching extreame;
Rajogun reaching peak alongside,
from your country many many demonology
experts are reaching there to mesmerize
everyone. They have imprinted on all,
made lakhs of rupees, crores of rupees.
Built, big places, now the same ghosts
shall eat them, they do eat
and it has started. Now
they are worried, now
this money cannot save
them and I told you yesterday also that
ghosts eat those people. I want to tell you
to tell you clearly, I have no fear of
anyone, these transcendental meditation
people doing it, today 132 People
came to me in London and everyone says
that we have a blockage in our
heads, Mother. Take us out of this.
Yesterday I told you, today again
I am telling you that you should ask for
it, Self-power; Soul power is not Rajoguni.
Self-power is not of Tamo Guni also,
Self-power is not Satva Guni either;
That's 'Gunatit', even virtuous, it
is like flowing beyond all qualities,
power from within. The form keeps flowing
from within it, it doesn't wrap itself
around any quality. Its 'Nirvajya'.
Its doesn't stick. This is the power
of the Soul, that flows 'Dhar
Dhar Dhar Dhar' from with in like Ganges.
There is no display of
His power, that power,
If you want that by rotating the aleady
the power in motion here, you take out four
rings and this and that, in such
useless things this power doesn't have
any interest in the ring. What a
thing a ring is, it is not even worth the
dust of the feet,
all this is to spoil your
attention. Being medium only by remaining
in Sattva Guna, medium being. By remaining
in medium state man can be Gunatit.
because its movement is in
middle, the line that you are seeing
is called Sushmana Nadi. Its movement is
due to it and due to that the man rises up,
Kundilini is so arranged. There must
be some authoity to raise it up. Kundilini
rising on its way up pierces Brahmarandar,
someone knowledgeable must be there.
Any one sitting for the Kundilini, doesn't
become its authoity that if some minister
gets attached then so far so good. Just
by becoming a minister,
he cannot become big authoity of Kundilini.
Kabir Das was the minister where from, how
much education did Kabir Das ji have, from
which university or school did he study;
Tukaram attended which University school?
He was a minister of which place, where
was he a king? They; all this knowledge got
where from ? Where did Gyaneshwar studied
from? Where from he got all this knowledge?
which school did he go to;
About the kingdom of God; when
man enters the Kingdom of God
then he looks at
its rules and regulations.
Then its a matter of laugh as to what to
do to these rules and regulations. Now some
gentleman told me that Mother there is
no one left now as a leader in the country
you contest elections. hey I said you
talk of where, who live in the king's house
do not go and live in beggar's house.
This politics is of beggars, whom to beg.
Whose money to save, all this filth. All
this is not for us, we are royal people.
Where are you trapping us. We said
the way they are making the creation today
You want to make it out of proportion
in Rajo Guna। Meaning if you go to
London then to drink alcohol only if
you want to buy glass, you will have to
You will have to spend at least one
thousand, fifteen thousand rupees. First
make liquor, which is absolutely wrong,
then To drink it you must make cups of it;
if in England Scotch whiskey stops, the
country will sink because they have only
two things, one is Scotch whiskey.
And second is their crystal;
When a man starts growing outside, he
gets dependent on the other's weaknesses.
if there is no weakness then why would
man need things. He is made weak. just like
women are told that your body should be
like this, your face should be like this,
You should be like this, you should have
these things in you; Women stated spending.
They instilled weakness in them. If living
in London, you must play horse racing
else you are not a civilized person, not an
elite one. You must know all
about horse racing. If you live in
Paris you should know all about alcohol.
what is alcohol, how much should it
be mixed, how much to be dissolved.
I was surprised that the
government college here,
where children are taught hotel
management, there are two papers in it,
where in its tought about wine, which
wine be given, which not. Because your
hotels will not run; In the hotel if they
cann't drink alcohol, they won't stay,
So how will you get money from?
The more weakness you have,
more stonger the Rajo guna can be.
if you can live in only two or four
clothes happily, how their cloth
mills will run?
If you live in simplicity then how
will the trade of these people run? If you
go to America, there will be fifty types
of handles, even the tiles over the head;
it will be of thousands of types. If you
happen to use someone's bath room, do ask
first which knob to press otherwise
once you get in, may get locked instantly.
What is the need to
create so much drama?
So much comfort addiction, why does a
man need so much comfort that all the time
he keeps rolling ?
Because it is necessary to
roll back after drinking alcohol,
comfort is necessary to roll back, And for
comfort every kind of thing is important;
This cushion should be made, such and such
should be made. It must have that thing;
so much deformity is there, I am telling
you, so much ugliness has resulted in man
and there is no shame in
him. He has made big signs. Have also made
signs for serving alcohol, then how should
women stay beautiful? They should tan,
even if they are ashamed of it, there is
no harm in it. Their body must be tanned.
they took a detour Of lamp and tanning, hey
brother, if you want to take sunlight, then
if you have clothes on your being, it
doesn't matter, The sunlight still goes
inside you. But there must be tanning,
for that such sort of views,
that you can not walk on any sea shore.
noise will subside and all these women will
One day these all sea shores will
shrink and pull these women inside,
then their wisdom will be set.
Shamelessness be spread in the world, as if
they are not shameless then how will their
cosmetics be sold? The things they have
made to befool women how will they take it?
Now some wisdom has
pevailed in our country,
earlier I used to see women putting a
dalda pin here and then women move out.
Then I gave lecture that Baba,
reduce the pin of Dalda at least.
If you wear heels then so high as if you
want to be camel. You are a human being,
God has ceated you of
a definite shape, why are you so disturbed.
See, you are holding beauty contest?
How strange, and quite distorted and
ugly it is because  completely satisfied
when there is a 'Satvik' form then man
becomes no sooner he sees the form;
This is the
goal of beauty that now that's end of it,
beyond this there is no
figure, that is the real thing. But
This is that figure that now
on way will see another one,
after that saw a second monkey,
then the third monkey was seen;
Only female monkeys
are seen lying far and wide.
I said, there is not even a single Sati
Sadhvi here.All are female monkeys, who
jumping on neck of this,
jumping on the neck of that and
are very over and above they are
proud that we are very much, Wah wah
Such type of foolish act women of this
country may not do, it will be
kind of them. This country has so
many women, who are respectable ones,
that inspite of numerous mistakes
of men, the counrty is still surviving.
All men have become 'Sahibs'.
no one can say anything to them.
It has become very difficult to
say to them, all are 'Sahib' now.
Now the second thing is that
they are absolutely monkey.
If you are in Delhi, I heard
That, if you go somewhere and if you don't
drink alcohol, people laugh, that Sir, you
have not yet become a complete monkey
and until the monkeys' tails are cut, they
will not be happy until you have and they
don't get joy until two or four girls you
haven't brought from here and there and
make them dance, then you are of no use.
These days, the old people here are fond of
fond of not geting be
fooled. Nagpur is our place,
where we lived, the people over there are
some definitely cruel, sometimes they say
factuals. They said that the old people
wished that if they did not get be fooled,
instead of keeping wisdom, some peace,
some dignity of theirs, well, these days
the elders are fond of looking younger.
the way they go and dance in embrace.
A gentleman started saying to me,
Sir, what is the objection to you in this?
What harm to you if we roam around like a
poor person; Sir! I said I have no poblem,
but let me tell you this much that at
this time you looking like a vampire.
And if you are already roaming around as
a vampire, then on the way if any vampire
sits on you on, whose fault will it be? It
will not be the vampire's fault but yours
because he will see that he is getting this
good agent, like him, in which he will be
well settled. Your face is such that
only ghosts can be attracted. All these are
the wonders of Rajo Guna, that if you
want to roam around like vampires then
you should be Rajo Guni. If
you want to do develoment, do it.
The pant thats not washed for ten-ten days
It is heared that there is lady who didn't
wash for days togethe since she wore.
She takes bath with it and dries; You
listen to each and every clumsy acts.
Telling you their hight of development.
Now there is a the tight crock is
new, maybe it has not reached yet.
maybe only it may reach. Few big
pins are stitched on both sides in it.
Big pins, red in the nose, shocking pink
here, green here, all these are leaves.
They are taken out and joined and
then they roam aound and who else
roam there, dignified professors;
We have some professors sitting here,
Be careful, (laughing) and you
will be surprised that great scholar,
I used to consider him, when he came to a
party, doing all this; "What is all this,"
I said? He said, these days I
joined punk-rock. I said….what
What's this you have done; You seem
intelligent and now you move to Punk rock.
He said that you too will have a lot
of fun, peace from it, which means that
It is said that one should look at
himself even after getting befooled of the
highest order. It is better to be a joker!
else no one watches now.
Because when everyone
becomes a hippie, they all look alike,
should be some specialty, then by putting
pins in their mouth here, from here to
here, such big ones all the big
common sites are there. You are surprised,
I am just not saying you for entertainment.
I am not saying this, this is a reality.
And on the sight of it in astonishment,
you are surprised. That sir, either we are
mad or they are mad. And they think of
us that we are very inhibited people, that
we don't have the intelligence to behave
like this. No one can do any good work.
In which we let luce ourselves.
We are so inhibited that we cannot
even imagine any freedom; Freedom It means
that it is foolish, it is not stupidity,
it is not stupidity at all; Freedom is
such a big thing. Following on one's own is
freedom. And this is the system
of self which is in your hands. The man
who wants to consider himself independent
must get self realized first, else he is
not independent. One must understand one's
own system and this is his own system.
Neither is the negativity of the Tantriks
which itself gets eliminated in it.
When one who becomes completely
independent, then only wisdom
gets fully balanced in him. Whatever
he does, he does with full independence.
On his every signal,
In his each and every signal many
kinds of independence are visible.
He is not afraid of anyone
and always remain humble and
he is free in love.
He is full of love and kindness;
We salute such an independent man.
Instead of those who
convert themselves in the name of freedom,
from donkeys to fools, I know
not, what else would they be?
I don't even have such animals
whose system I can tell you
I didn't even find words
to describe these people.
Because such things had never
happened before in Kaliyuga.
Therefore there is
need to find new words ;
And those who were words creators,
that too have become the same,
then now who will make words
for these. This situation has come;
If you find some Sanskrit
language, do tell me.
Because it is very difficult;
When Sanskrit language was prevalent,
it was not thought for these donkeys.
It is described in the Quran
also that Kaliyuga will come, but
so much great fools would wander in
the world was not mentioned in the Quran.
This can be visualized.
Educated and highly educated people are
doing this work.
What would you say to this?
This is effect of Rajo Gun.
There is a strong
feeling; Now your country is developing
but please look at this sample. Surely
you may develope, but look at this example
the ditch they are in, don't go and
jump in that. One of the major defect in
Rajogun is that it is driven by ego,
meaning Rajogun is ego oriented.
When ego orientation has begun, ego is
such a thing that whatever a man does in it
he cannot see his own stupidity in
that or whatever he does is right because
it satisfies his ego. There is a beautiful
description in the Ramayana
when Narad Muni himself got tapped
in a dilemma, it is such a dilemma,
this is the dilemma of Rajo Guna. we should
look at ourselves to understand this, and
say, Oh God, this ego of mine is turning
me into a donkey. And ego turns you
into a donkey and
leaves you and in the end,
for the nervousness
that you carry that donkey on you.
Because it is ego oriented and so
dangerous. If it was not ego oriented, then
it wouldn't have been so dangerous because
man wouldn't have called himself donkey.
He will laugh on the whole wold but he
himself is carrying the donkey on his head,
he won't see self. This is the specialty
of ego, ego; Ego sets in blindness.
and so that’s a very bad thing.
Yes, if its super ego that's on the
other side of our head, may develope.
Due to Tamo Guna, a person can
suffer from it. His body may tremble,
he may get problems, he may get
diseased; His physical problems may arise,
But an ego oriented man never faces these
problem, unless he gets heart trouble.
Its same if the heart also stops;
ego Oriented man can never
find anything like this, as in Tamo
Guni obstructions are there all the time,
every where. Tamo Guni in a way, the
poor man, is better off because at least
he keeps avoiding its stumbles. Understand
that right now a lady is sitting here,
she has a possession; She went to
some man to talk to him to do something,
she has possession; and when
possessed by the ghost her body convulse.
Ok brother, leave it! But if one
goes in front of an egoistical man,
his ego will penetrate inside you too, so
I am elder than his father. If he said one
well I said ten, who are they, I I am
his maternal grandfather, he started as
are donkeys, you are his double grandfather
donkey. And along with it there is
another problem which is very subtle, which
should be understood. Yes Sir - better.
one more problem gets added to it, Yes
Sir - Success; If you have Success with it,
then it becomes a big problem. Then it
is impossible to take him off the donkey.
If success gets tagged, then they hear big
success; Then 30-40 years after their death
it comes out that he did this donkey act,
he ate cow dung, he spoiled his condition,
he was like this and he was like
that, so People say he won't be like this
because man, in ego, can do
anything, can do any sort of work.
There are many people who apply ego to
do things secretly, while some
people do it openly if it gets
exposed but in every one
A sort of great demonic
power is acting and there is such
great foolishness is there in that demonic
power, as I just told you only yesterday
in London a seventy-seven year old
grandmother marries her grand child
It is not strange to them, and Nana
ji is wedding with his granddaughter.
and there are people there to get passed
a law for it. There is a lot of movement
going on there that this way you
are attacking our independence.
There is
no need to learn anything from such idiots.
they don't have anything of their own
to offer. Please don't accept any thing
from them. And we don't need such kind of
money, this will make us more foolish.
Ok! If you want development, then Gandhian
ways are the best, follow his ways.
Walk on your stability,
Whatever assets you have, whatever
power you have, go with that.
Do you understand how stupid we are
being, understand this too. We have, if we
eat in brass, it is a matter of great
pride that we have so much brass and
and these people eat in plastic
and we wish plastic to come here,
otherwise stainless steel should
come; Stainless steel, is it a food item,
which is called iron; people will eat in
iron it was said earlier in the Puranas.
When we were young,
someone used to say, that such a time
will come when people will eat in iron,
then our mother and others, used to say,"
Oh God, what kind of time will this come,
such misery, such poverty will it
come that people will eat in iron. Oh God!
eat in copper, eat in punch metal,
eat in something nice, what is this?
So now people eat in stainless
steel; I come there from London
people write to me that there nice nylon
sarees are available, American Georgette,
bring it. English people
there laugh, hey, what?
your cotton is so good and
where from you are taking
this garbage for there? If
someone wears cotton on his own,
people will laugh that what kind of
cotton is she wearing? That day is not far,
Khadi will dominate all over the
world, the day is far off. Believe me
because in these there are vibrations
of weaving hands and those people
are hand made vibrations and those people
understand the importance of this thing.
understand the importance of
Khadi, but we people are idiots who think
Nylon a great thing. We know
that nylon causes many diseases
but why do we like
nylon, because they and we copy English.
You, instead of ten wear two
sarees,
Wear proper and simple one; wear instead
of ten, two clothes. Now, at our place
people wonder that Terry cot is
expensive than cotton and they are very
surprised, how is it, not possible? if
there Cotton you get for ten pounds there
you will get a terry coat for two pounds;
If someone gets cotton somewhere
people would run for it. They
say how beautiful its feel is.
We still iron and iron.
they say, brother, we don't
at all care so about people. We get nervous
and suffocated, why do you iron so much
from morning till evening.
Oho Iron your mind as well
also this external hesitation that we think
is a big thing and people laugh at it.
English people laugh a lot, some of our
English disciples came here. They said that
they liked Bombay more than Delhi. Of; They
were in the cold, so I asked why, they said
everyone from here is so westernized,
I said westernized how do you say, they
say that all people roam around wearing
suits; don't they have understanding?
They couldn't understand
what it is, so I asked them," If
you also want to show off on them,
then come wearing a suit,
otherwise there is no effect on them."
When you have to go to
university, go wearing a best suit;
If the Englishman came in a suit,
then only our Hindustani falls at his feet.
and he is not going to fall otherwise;
he is going to get missed,
if you come wearing casual
clothes. Don't you understand,
the same Slavic mentality is still
inside us for the last thousands of years.
Those, our fathers and Grand
fathers never wore these things.
But they were full of humanity.
Each and every person
would have given a word once
was a legend, about whom People all
over the world used to sing praises that
Had the people of India been united, would
have been better than thousands useless
people of here. The same
Hindustani people have been spoiled.
This is the grace of Rajo guna.
We were very good before independence, when
we were slaves, when we fought shoulder to
shoulder and after going
there with everyone, and
we reached everyone Nation to
raise demand for our independence.
Those, we were different people.
And today in the slavery of Rajo Guna
we are getting trapped, getting so much
spoiled by materialism, to understand it.
While rising in Rajoguna, on its way,
there is Satv Guna; stop here,
Stop, looking at its
extreme come in between.
Satva Guna comes only when Dharma
is followed; and Dharm in our stomach is
established around Nabhi Chakra.
It is the place of Lakshmi,
Lakshmi is the virtuous arrangement
of Rajo Guna. I have told you about
Lakshmi earlier, told yesterday
also that a person who is an
embodiment of Lakshmi gives charity
with one hand and accommodates with
the other hand. He should
be an embodiment of Mother.
She has lotus flowers in her two hands.
Like there should be an aura of respect and
love inside him all the time. When you
go to his house or door, says come, son!
Where did you come from? How come you came
here with so much trouble, sit, stay here.
I just did a (unclear); today I told a
rich man, brother, this is Lakshmipati,
He said, sister, if any thief comes; I
Said, if even a thief comes, there is
no problem, make him sit with love,
his theft will change. A thief would never
steal from a noble person. If he is
absolutely worthless, let it go for
his deeds. If a thief comes to your house,
keep him, accept him with compassion,
he thinks ten times whether to
steal or not, this man is like my father.
Such man must be called
rich, rather than that man who
insults everyone else all around.
The man who is like a lotus at heart,
very beautiful and pink like a lotus,
extremely loving feelings and in which
complete affection flows, within
which even a dark full of thorns
creature can go and sleep comfortably; such
a man is called Lakshmi Pati in our place.
Without becoming Lakshmi form this
Rajo Guna won't benefit you; He just lives
like a trustee. Whatever money he
has, that does not make him addicted.
He does not leave any
money for his children. He does not
spend it in addictions; He uses
that money in the welfare of the world.
He is a trustee in nature.
I had read a very beautiful
story of Sharadchandra, that some
He wrote that we, boys from
some group approached a rich man.
When we reached he asked
what you want to do; Then they said
we want to do a drama and
we want to do this and in that
we want to show a very modern life and
you give us some money; Then he said
Okay, sit, sit, made us sit a lot, after
that they were given 'Chavanni'. these boys
got annoyed with him that he is such a
miser, gave us 'Chavanni'. After that a
poor lady came who was old,
said, I don't know, some fifty years ago
my husband had kept some money with
you. After that we went abroad and where
my husband died;
I found a letter in which it was written
that I had left a lot of money with him.
So if you can, he has a religious person.
Go to him. He said, please show me the
letter. Looked at its date,
started saying look in
the book where it is theirs,
find out such and such date. If it happened
in such and such year, 50 years earlier;
get all those files out and sitting
there looking, he was also quite old,
he too was 75-80 years old, but sat down
and said to her, "Sister, stop here, eat
this food, stay here only." Coincidentally
they found out about it within two
to three hours. Within two to three hours
they found out that this rupee was given.
He returned all that money to that woman.
He returned it with interest. It is a sign
of Lakshmi Pati that he stands in religion.
They use that money like a trustee.
I recognise Sharad Chandra for his these
values because the element of Dharma is
Sharad Chandra so beautifully expressed,
the very essence of human religion
has been shown so beautifully. But we don't
read Sharad Chandra, we read Rajneesh.
Rajneesh is the greatest hero of our
times, bearded Maharaj and his disciples
These are the biggest heroes for us these
days.
In our culture the importance of the rich
was never praised. No where.
It was always sung of the
person who is a religious person.
and you should also know that in this
country your praise will never be sung,
no matter how many temples you construct
and may do whatever useless things.
your importance will be praised
only when you are a religious person
and if you have money,
put it in use for Dharma. And when you
spend then, don't say any one that I spent
for you. Keep watching, keep watching that
you are positioned in the middle only to
see that just the money is reaching
the right place. And some people
so absorbed in God that they do not see at
all, say let it go to whom where it goes.
but if someone is engaged in other's
welfare, his money will never go for
in misuse. The money
of the wicked is definitely
spent in misuse, but that of the
religious people will never go. There is a
very strong force of attraction in
that too, that we call vibrations, waves of
consciousness. In every thing there, are
wave of consciousness, its giver and doer
should be there.
waves of consciousness can
arise within you too if you nurture it.
Many of you right now have
started feeling cold in the hands,
they are saying; Keep
your hands like this. Again
today I will tell you about the remaining
three Chakras, because yesterday I
Told you about the
four chakras of lower side.
Next year maybe I'll spend more
days I will come to Delhi for this, see but
Delhiites, Bombayites and Calcutta people;
these people are a little more elite.
So now for them sixteen
Demons were born, six demons were born.
They come as they get a chance, wherever
there are sitting, Lala Amke, Dhamke, Rai
So, if you have more money, then put it in Jamunaji,
otherwise they will stick to you also. Avoid that.
Bahadur, Tamke Thamke, So-and-so Minister,
So-and-So; they are all created for them,
are all settled.
I am a poor Sahaja Yogini; for me many
people can be found in the rural area,
See how far people in Delhi have progress,
how far do they grow; To what extent they
attain the truth. Most of the people go
with the fashion, that's in vogue. As for
darshan, they started saying that only
twenty-five thousand people had come
for darshan. Then what happened to
them? Just had darshan,
then what happened, which problems
were solved, nothing, just had darshan.
Sir, just had the darshan; Did one get any
benefit, welfare. had the darshan, brother,
some transformation happened, any change
in any one or just had gone there for
the Darshan only. No sir, it was like that
we could not go inside,
all the other big people went inside.
Baba ji gave them the rings, after that
everyone came out happy wearing the rings.
After that it came to light that
everyone got heart attacks,
Heart attacks are
happening from the rings only;
after that came to know that the rings
were also stolen, their house had thefts.
The one who has more money,
many people are ready to eat it,
if you have more money, put in Jamuna ji
else they will get stuck you too.
So beware.